.TH SGDRM-PNGDRAW 1 "2026-05-07" "SGUTILS 2.0.0" "Screen Graphics Utilities"
.SH NAME
sgdrm-pngdraw, sgdrm-jpgdraw, sgdrm-svgdraw, sgdrm-bmpdraw \- draw images on DRM display
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sgdrm-pngdraw
\fB-f\fR \fIFILE\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.PP
.B sgdrm-jpgdraw
\fB-f\fR \fIFILE\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.PP
.B sgdrm-svgdraw
\fB-f\fR \fIFILE\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.PP
.B sgdrm-bmpdraw
\fB-f\fR \fIFILE\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Draw images onto a DRM/KMS display with optional transforms.
The binary name determines the default image format.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -f ", " --file " " \fIPATH\fR
(Required) Image file path.
.TP
.BR -d ", " --device " " \fIPATH\fR
DRM device (default: /dev/dri/card0).
.TP
.BR -x ", " --xpos " " \fIN\fR
X position (default: 0).
.TP
.BR -y ", " --ypos " " \fIN\fR
Y position (default: 0).
.TP
.BR -w ", " --width " " \fIN\fR
Display width (default: screen width).
.TP
.BR -H ", " --height " " \fIN\fR
Display height (default: screen height).
.TP
.BR -F ", " --format " " \fIFMT\fR
Force image format: png, jpeg, svg, bmp.
.TP
.BR -i ", " --invert
Invert colors.
.TP
.BR -G ", " --grayscale
Convert to grayscale.
.TP
.BR -u ", " --hue " " \fIMASK\fR
Hue shift (mask chars: r, g, b, c, y, m, w).
.TP
.BR -b ", " --brightness " " \fIN\fR
Brightness adjustment (-255 to 255).
.TP
.BR -r ", " --rotate " " \fIDEG\fR
Rotate: 90, 180, or 270 degrees.
.TP
.BR -a ", " --alpha
Enable alpha blending.
.TP
.BR -h ", " --help
Show help message.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
$ sgdrm-pngdraw -f photo.png
$ sgdrm-jpgdraw -f photo.jpg -x 100 -y 50 -w 800 -H 600
$ sgdrm-pngdraw -f overlay.png --alpha --invert
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sgfb-pngdraw (1),
.BR sgdrm-describe (1)

.SH AUTHOR
Anand <anand@truchiptechnology.com>
