.TH SGFB-PNGDRAW 1 "2026-05-07" "SGUTILS 2.0.0" "Screen Graphics Utilities"
.SH NAME
sgfb-pngdraw, sgfb-jpgdraw, sgfb-svgdraw, sgfb-bmpdraw \- draw images to the framebuffer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sgfb-pngdraw
\fB-f\fR \fIFILE\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.br
.B sgfb-jpgdraw
\fB-f\fR \fIFILE\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.br
.B sgfb-svgdraw
\fB-f\fR \fIFILE\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.br
.B sgfb-bmpdraw
\fB-f\fR \fIFILE\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Draw an image file to the Linux framebuffer, with optional scaling, positioning,
and color transforms. The binary name determines the default image format.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-file " " \fIPATH\fR
(Required) Path to the image file.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-device " " \fIPATH\fR
Framebuffer device. Default: \fI/dev/fb0\fR.
.TP
.BR \-x ", " \-\-xpos " " \fIN\fR
X position. Default: 0.
.TP
.BR \-y ", " \-\-ypos " " \fIN\fR
Y position. Default: 0.
.TP
.BR \-w ", " \-\-width " " \fIN\fR
Display width. Default: framebuffer width.
.TP
.BR \-H ", " \-\-height " " \fIN\fR
Display height. Default: framebuffer height.
.TP
.BR \-F ", " \-\-format " " \fIFMT\fR
Force image format: png, jpeg, svg, or bmp.
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-invert
Invert all pixel colors.
.TP
.BR \-G ", " \-\-grayscale
Convert image to grayscale.
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-hue " " \fIMASK\fR
Apply a hue shift. MASK is a string of: r, g, b, c, y, m, w.
.TP
.BR \-T ", " \-\-hue\-threshold " " \fIN\fR
Minimum color difference for hue shift. Default: 20.
.TP
.BR \-b ", " \-\-brightness " " \fIN\fR
Adjust brightness from -255 (darker) to 255 (brighter).
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-rotate " " \fIDEG\fR
Rotate image: 90, 180, or 270 degrees.
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-alpha
Use alpha blending when drawing (for images with transparency).
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Show version and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
$ sgfb-pngdraw -f photo.png
$ sgfb-jpgdraw -f photo.jpg -x 100 -y 50 -w 800 -H 600
$ sgfb-pngdraw -f photo.png --grayscale --brightness 20
$ sgfb-pngdraw -f overlay.png --alpha
$ sgfb-svgdraw -f icon.svg -w 200 -H 200
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sgfb-describe (1),
.BR sgfb-clear (1),
.BR sgfb-composite (1),
.BR sgfb-text (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Anand <anand@truchiptechnology.com>
.SH LICENSE
MIT
