.TH SGFB-TEXT 1 "2026-05-07" "SGUTILS 2.0.0" "Screen Graphics Utilities"
.SH NAME
sgfb-text \- render text to the framebuffer using TrueType fonts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sgfb-text
\fB-t\fR \fITEXT\fR \fB-F\fR \fIFONT\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sgfb-text
renders text directly to the Linux framebuffer using FreeType for
TrueType and OpenType font rendering, with proper kerning and anti-aliasing.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-text " " \fISTRING\fR
(Required) The text string to render.
.TP
.BR \-F ", " \-\-font " " \fIPATH\fR
(Required) Path to a .ttf or .otf font file.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-device " " \fIPATH\fR
Framebuffer device. Default: \fI/dev/fb0\fR.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-size " " \fIN\fR
Font size in pixels. Default: 32.
.TP
.BR \-x ", " \-\-xpos " " \fIN\fR
X position. Default: 0.
.TP
.BR \-y ", " \-\-ypos " " \fIN\fR
Y baseline position. Default: font size.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-color " " \fIRRGGBB\fR
Text color in hex. Default: FFFFFF (white).
.TP
.BR \-b ", " \-\-bg\-color " " \fIRRGGBB\fR
Optional background fill color.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Show version and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
$ sgfb-text -t "Hello!" -F /usr/share/fonts/truetype/dejavu/DejaVuSans.ttf
$ sgfb-text -t "Big Title" -F font.ttf -s 96 -x 50 -y 120 -c FF0000
$ sgfb-text -t "Status" -F font.ttf -c FFFFFF -b 003366
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sgfb-describe (1),
.BR sgfb-clear (1),
.BR sgfb-pngdraw (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Anand <anand@truchiptechnology.com>
.SH LICENSE
MIT
