.TH SGUTILS_DRM 3 "2026-05-07" "SGUTILS 2.0.0" "Screen Graphics Utilities Library"
.SH NAME
sgutils_drm \- DRM/KMS display access via dumb buffers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sgutils/sgdrm.h>
.fi
.SH TYPES
.TP
.B sg_drm_context_t
Opaque context wrapping a DRM dumb buffer, connector, and CRTC state.
.TP
.B drm_mode_info_t
.nf
typedef struct {
    char     connector_name[64];
    uint32_t connector_id;
    uint32_t crtc_id;
    int      width;
    int      height;
    int      refresh;
    int      bpp;
    char     driver_name[64];
} drm_mode_info_t;
.fi
.SH FUNCTIONS
.TP
.BI "sg_drm_context_t *drm_context_create(const char *" device ");"
Open the DRM device at
.I device
(e.g. "/dev/dri/card0"), find a connected output, and create a dumb buffer
for rendering.
Pass NULL to use the default
.IR /dev/dri/card0 .
Returns NULL on failure.
.TP
.BI "int drm_get_mode_info(const char *" device ", drm_mode_info_t *" info ", int " info_count ");"
Query DRM device information without mapping a framebuffer.
Fills up to
.I info_count
entries in the
.I info
array.
Returns the number of connected outputs found, or \-1 on error.
.TP
.BI "int drm_context_width(const sg_drm_context_t *" ctx ");"
Return the width of the active mode in pixels.
.TP
.BI "int drm_context_height(const sg_drm_context_t *" ctx ");"
Return the height of the active mode in pixels.
.TP
.BI "image_t drm_context_as_image(sg_drm_context_t *" ctx ");"
Return an
.B image_t
view wrapping the DRM dumb buffer.
The returned image does
.B not
own the data \(em do not call
.BR image_free (3)
on it.
.TP
.BI "void drm_context_present(sg_drm_context_t *" ctx ");"
Present the buffer to the screen.
For single-buffer dumb buffers this is effectively a no-op since the buffer
is already visible.
.TP
.BI "void drm_context_release(sg_drm_context_t *" ctx ");"
Unmap the buffer, restore the original CRTC mode, and close the device.
.TP
.BI "const char *drm_context_device(const sg_drm_context_t *" ctx ");"
Return the device path used to open the context.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
#include <sgutils/sgdrm.h>

int main(void) {
    sg_drm_context_t *ctx = drm_context_create(NULL);
    if (!ctx) return 1;

    image_t fb = drm_context_as_image(ctx);
    fill_image(&fb, PIXEL_RGB(0, 128, 0));
    draw_circle(&fb, 400, 300, 100, PIXEL_RGB(255, 255, 0), 1);

    drm_context_present(ctx);
    drm_context_release(ctx);
    return 0;
}
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sgutils (3),
.BR sgutils_draw (3),
.BR sgutils_framebuffer (3),
.BR sgdrm-describe (1),
.BR sgdrm-clear (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Anand <anand@truchiptechnology.com>
.SH LICENSE
MIT
