.TH SGUTILS_TEXT 3 "2026-05-07" "SGUTILS 2.0.0" "Screen Graphics Utilities Library"
.SH NAME
sgutils_text \- TrueType/OpenType text rendering via FreeType
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sgutils/text.h>
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Provides text rendering with kerning support.
Requires the library to be built with
.B ENABLE_TEXT
and linked against FreeType.
.SH TYPES
.TP
.B fb_font_t
Opaque type representing a loaded font face at a specific pixel size.
.SH FUNCTIONS
.TP
.BI "int text_init(void);"
Initialise the FreeType text subsystem.
Must be called once before any other text function.
Returns 0 on success, \-1 on failure.
.TP
.BI "void text_shutdown(void);"
Shut down the text subsystem and release FreeType resources.
.TP
.BI "fb_font_t *font_load(const char *" path ", int " pixel_size ");"
Load a TrueType or OpenType font from
.I path
at the given
.IR pixel_size .
Returns NULL on failure.
.TP
.BI "void font_free(fb_font_t *" font ");"
Free a loaded font.
.TP
.BI "void draw_text(image_t *" dst ", int " x ", int " y ", const char *" text ", fb_font_t *" font ", pixel_t " color ");"
Render a null-terminated UTF-8 string onto
.I dst
at baseline origin
.RI ( x ", " y )
with the given
.I color
and
.IR font .
Alpha blending is applied per glyph.
.TP
.BI "void measure_text(fb_font_t *" font ", const char *" text ", int *" out_w ", int *" out_h ");"
Measure the bounding box of
.I text
without drawing.
Width and height (in pixels) are stored in
.I out_w
and
.IR out_h .
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
#include <sgutils/text.h>

text_init();

fb_font_t *font = font_load("/usr/share/fonts/truetype/dejavu/DejaVuSans.ttf", 32);
if (font) {
    image_t *img = image_create(640, 480);
    fill_image(img, PIXEL_RGB(0, 0, 0));
    draw_text(img, 10, 40, "Hello, World!", font, PIXEL_RGB(255, 255, 255));
    font_free(font);
    image_free(img);
}

text_shutdown();
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sgutils (3),
.BR sgutils_draw (3),
.BR sgfb-text (1),
.BR sgdrm-text (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Anand <anand@truchiptechnology.com>
.SH LICENSE
MIT
