.TH SGUTILS 3 "2026-05-07" "SGUTILS 2.0.0" "Screen Graphics Utilities Library"
.SH NAME
sgutils \- Linux screen graphics utility library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sgutils/sgutils.h>
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B libsgutils
is a C library for rendering graphics directly to the Linux display via
the legacy framebuffer
.RI ( /dev/fb* )
or the modern DRM/KMS
.RI ( /dev/dri/card* )
subsystem.
.PP
The unified header
.B <sgutils/sgutils.h>
includes all available modules.
Individual headers can also be included separately.
.PP
The library is organised into the following modules:
.TP
.B draw.h
Core pixel type
.RB ( pixel_t ),
image type
.RB ( image_t ),
drawing primitives, colour transforms, and alpha blending.
.TP
.B framebuffer.h
Open, map, and release a Linux framebuffer device.
.TP
.B sgdrm.h
Open, map, present, and release a DRM/KMS dumb buffer.
.TP
.B compositing.h
Layer-based offscreen compositing with per-layer opacity.
.TP
.B text.h
TrueType/OpenType text rendering via FreeType with kerning.
.TP
.B img-png.h
PNG image loader (requires libpng).
.TP
.B img-jpeg.h
JPEG image loader (requires libjpeg).
.TP
.B img-bmp.h
BMP image loader (no external dependencies).
.TP
.B img-svg.h
SVG image loader (requires librsvg + cairo).
.SH PIXEL FORMAT
All pixels are stored as 32-bit ARGB:
.PP
.nf
Bits 31\(en24: Alpha (0x00 = transparent, 0xFF = opaque)
Bits 23\(en16: Red
Bits 15\(en8 : Green
Bits  7\(en0 : Blue
.fi
.PP
Convenience macros:
.nf
PIXEL_RGB(r, g, b)
PIXEL_ARGB(a, r, g, b)
PIXEL_R(px)  PIXEL_G(px)  PIXEL_B(px)  PIXEL_A(px)
.fi
.SH LINKING
.nf
# Using pkg-config (recommended)
gcc myapp.c -o myapp $(pkg-config --cflags --libs sgutils)

# Manual
gcc myapp.c -o myapp -I/usr/local/include/sgutils -lsgutils -lm
.fi
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
#include <sgutils/sgutils.h>

int main(void) {
    fb_context_t *ctx = fb_context_create(NULL);
    if (!ctx) return 1;

    image_t fb = fb_context_as_image(ctx);
    fill_image(&fb, PIXEL_RGB(0, 0, 64));
    draw_rect(&fb, 50, 50, 200, 150, PIXEL_RGB(255, 0, 0));

    fb_context_release(ctx);
    return 0;
}
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sgutils_draw (3),
.BR sgutils_framebuffer (3),
.BR sgutils_drm (3),
.BR sgutils_compositing (3),
.BR sgutils_text (3),
.BR sgutils_img (3),
.BR sgfb-clear (1),
.BR sgdrm-clear (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Anand <anand@truchiptechnology.com>
.SH LICENSE
MIT
