.TH SGUTILS_IMG 3 "2026-05-07" "SGUTILS 2.0.0" "Screen Graphics Utilities Library"
.SH NAME
sgutils_img \- image file loaders (PNG, JPEG, BMP, SVG)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sgutils/img-png.h>
.B #include <sgutils/img-jpeg.h>
.B #include <sgutils/img-bmp.h>
.B #include <sgutils/img-svg.h>
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Each image loader reads a file from disk and returns a newly allocated
.B image_t
with the decoded pixel data.
The caller must free the returned image with
.BR image_free (3).
.PP
Each loader is conditionally compiled.
Enable the corresponding feature flag at build time
.RB ( ENABLE_PNG ,
.BR ENABLE_JPEG ,
.BR ENABLE_BMP ,
.BR ENABLE_SVG ).
.SH FUNCTIONS
.TP
.BI "image_t *read_png_file(const char *" filename ");"
Load a PNG image.
Requires
.B libpng
and
.BR ENABLE_PNG .
Returns NULL on failure.
.TP
.BI "image_t *read_jpeg_file(const char *" filename ");"
Load a JPEG image.
Requires
.B libjpeg
and
.BR ENABLE_JPEG .
Returns NULL on failure.
.TP
.BI "image_t *read_bmp_file(const char *" filename ");"
Load a BMP image.
No external dependencies; requires
.BR ENABLE_BMP .
Returns NULL on failure.
.TP
.BI "image_t *read_svg_file(const char *" filename ", int " r_width ", int " r_height ");"
Load an SVG image and rasterise it at the requested
.IR r_width \(mu r_height
dimensions.
Requires
.B librsvg
+
.B cairo
and
.BR ENABLE_SVG .
Returns NULL on failure.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
#include <sgutils/img-png.h>
#include <sgutils/draw.h>

image_t *photo = read_png_file("photo.png");
if (photo) {
    /* draw, transform, composite, etc. */
    image_free(photo);
}
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sgutils (3),
.BR sgutils_draw (3),
.BR sgfb-pngdraw (1),
.BR sgdrm-pngdraw (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Anand <anand@truchiptechnology.com>
.SH LICENSE
MIT
