.TH SGUTILS_FRAMEBUFFER 3 "2026-05-07" "SGUTILS 2.0.0" "Screen Graphics Utilities Library"
.SH NAME
sgutils_framebuffer \- Linux framebuffer device access
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sgutils/framebuffer.h>
.fi
.SH TYPES
.TP
.B fb_context_t
.nf
typedef struct {
    pixel_t *data;
    int      width;
    int      height;
    char    *fb_name;
    int      fb_file_desc;
    int      fb_size;
} fb_context_t;
.fi
.SH FUNCTIONS
.TP
.BI "fb_context_t *fb_context_create(const char *" device ");"
Open the framebuffer device at
.I device
(e.g. "/dev/fb0") and mmap it for read/write access.
Pass NULL to use the default
.IR /dev/fb0 .
Returns NULL on failure.
.TP
.BI "fb_context_t *fb_context_get_dimensions(const char *" device ");"
Open the framebuffer and query its dimensions without mapping the pixel buffer.
The
.B data
pointer in the returned context is NULL.
Useful for querying display size (e.g.,
.BR sgfb-describe (1)).
Returns NULL on failure.
.TP
.BI "void fb_context_release(fb_context_t *" ctx ");"
Unmap the framebuffer, close the file descriptor, and free the context.
.TP
.BI "image_t fb_context_as_image(fb_context_t *" ctx ");"
Return an
.B image_t
view wrapping the framebuffer data.
The returned image does
.B not
own the data \(em do not call
.BR image_free (3)
on it.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
#include <sgutils/framebuffer.h>

int main(void) {
    fb_context_t *ctx = fb_context_create(NULL);
    if (!ctx) return 1;

    image_t fb = fb_context_as_image(ctx);
    fill_image(&fb, PIXEL_RGB(0, 0, 0));   /* clear to black */

    fb_context_release(ctx);
    return 0;
}
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sgutils (3),
.BR sgutils_draw (3),
.BR sgutils_drm (3),
.BR sgfb-describe (1),
.BR sgfb-clear (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Anand <anand@truchiptechnology.com>
.SH LICENSE
MIT
