.TH SGUTILS_DRAW 3 "2026-05-07" "SGUTILS 2.0.0" "Screen Graphics Utilities Library"
.SH NAME
sgutils_draw \- core image types, drawing primitives, transforms, and alpha blending
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sgutils/draw.h>
.fi
.SH TYPES
.TP
.B pixel_t
A 32-bit unsigned integer representing an ARGB pixel.
.TP
.B image_t
.nf
typedef struct {
    pixel_t *data;
    int      width;
    int      height;
} image_t;
.fi
.SH PIXEL MACROS
.TP
.BI "PIXEL_RGB(" r ", " g ", " b ")"
Create a fully opaque pixel from red, green, blue components (0\(en255).
.TP
.BI "PIXEL_ARGB(" a ", " r ", " g ", " b ")"
Create a pixel with explicit alpha.
.TP
.BI "PIXEL_R(" px ")"
Extract the red channel from a pixel.
.TP
.BI "PIXEL_G(" px ")"
Extract the green channel.
.TP
.BI "PIXEL_B(" px ")"
Extract the blue channel.
.TP
.BI "PIXEL_A(" px ")"
Extract the alpha channel.
.SH IMAGE MANAGEMENT
.TP
.BI "image_t *image_create(int " width ", int " height ");"
Allocate a new image with all pixels set to zero (transparent black).
Returns NULL on allocation failure.
.TP
.BI "void image_free(image_t *" image ");"
Free an image and its pixel buffer.
.TP
.BI "image_t *image_clone(const image_t *" src ");"
Create an independent deep copy of
.IR src .
.SH DRAWING PRIMITIVES
.TP
.BI "void set_pixel(image_t *" dst ", int " x ", int " y ", pixel_t " color ");"
Set a single pixel. Out-of-bounds coordinates are silently ignored.
.TP
.BI "pixel_t get_pixel(const image_t *" dst ", int " x ", int " y ");"
Read a single pixel. Returns 0 for out-of-bounds coordinates.
.TP
.BI "void draw_rect(image_t *" dst ", int " x ", int " y ", int " w ", int " h ", pixel_t " color ");"
Draw a filled rectangle.
.TP
.BI "void draw_rect_outline(image_t *" dst ", int " x ", int " y ", int " w ", int " h ", pixel_t " color ", int " thickness ");"
Draw a rectangle outline with the given border thickness.
.TP
.BI "void draw_line(image_t *" dst ", int " x0 ", int " y0 ", int " x1 ", int " y1 ", pixel_t " color ");"
Draw a line using Bresenham's algorithm.
.TP
.BI "void draw_circle(image_t *" dst ", int " cx ", int " cy ", int " radius ", pixel_t " color ", int " filled ");"
Draw a circle using the midpoint algorithm.
If
.I filled
is non-zero, the circle interior is filled.
.TP
.BI "void draw_image(image_t *" dst ", int " x ", int " y ", const image_t *" src ");"
Copy
.I src
onto
.I dst
at
.RI ( x ", " y )
without alpha blending.
.TP
.BI "void draw_image_alpha(image_t *" dst ", int " x ", int " y ", const image_t *" src ");"
Composite
.I src
onto
.I dst
at
.RI ( x ", " y )
with per-pixel alpha blending.
.TP
.BI "void clear_image(image_t *" dst ");"
Set all pixels to zero (transparent black).
.TP
.BI "void fill_image(image_t *" dst ", pixel_t " color ");"
Fill every pixel with
.IR color .
.TP
.BI "void test_pattern(image_t *" dst ");"
Render a SMPTE-style colour bar test pattern.
.SH TRANSFORMS
.TP
.BI "void image_invert(image_t *" image ");"
Invert all colour channels (not alpha).
.TP
.BI "void image_grayscale(image_t *" image ");"
Convert to grayscale using luminance weighting.
.TP
.BI "void image_hueify(image_t *" image ", uint32_t " mask ", int " min_level ");"
Shift hue channels according to
.I mask
(e.g.,
.BR MASK_RED ,
.BR MASK_CYAN ).
Pixels below
.I min_level
are left unchanged.
.TP
.BI "void image_brightness(image_t *" image ", int " delta ");"
Adjust brightness by
.I delta
(\-255 to 255).
.TP
.BI "void image_rotate(image_t *" image ", int " degrees ");"
Rotate in place by 90, 180, or 270 degrees.
.TP
.BI "image_t *image_scale(const image_t *" src ", int " w ", int " h ");"
Return a new image scaled to
.IR w \(mu h
using nearest-neighbour interpolation.
Caller must free the result.
.SH ALPHA BLENDING
.TP
.BI "pixel_t alpha_blend(pixel_t " bg ", pixel_t " fg ");"
Blend foreground pixel
.I fg
over background pixel
.I bg
using the "over" operator.
.SH HUE MASK CONSTANTS
.nf
MASK_RED      0xFF0000
MASK_GREEN    0x00FF00
MASK_BLUE     0x0000FF
MASK_YELLOW   0xFFFF00
MASK_CYAN     0x00FFFF
MASK_MAGENTA  0xFF00FF
MASK_WHITE    0xFFFFFF
MASK_NONE     0x000000
HUE_THRESHOLD_DEFAULT  20
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sgutils (3),
.BR sgutils_framebuffer (3),
.BR sgutils_drm (3),
.BR sgutils_compositing (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Anand <anand@truchiptechnology.com>
.SH LICENSE
MIT
